
I've been experimenting with snyk attestations...


The basic ideas are:

1. Would we like some kind of finer-grained control than the 
   current snyk attestation which causes an artifact to be 
   non-compliant if any vulnerability is found, of whatever kind?

2. Would we like, if possible and reasonable, for the resolution of 
   (at least some kinds of) vulnerability and regular feature development 
   to be orthogonal in terms of branches/pr/etc?

Notes:

o) This experiment is on snyk attestations, but the broader ideas
   applies, I think, to any kind of security scan.

o) I am using a custom-attestation-type (CAT) called aws-beta-snyk-vuln-ages 
   https://app.kosli.com/cyber-dojo/attestation-types/aws-beta-synk-vuln-ages/version/7
   It is designed to hold the information about a SINGLE snyk vulnerability.
   You can see its --jq rule here
   https://github.com/cyber-dojo/live-snyk-scans/blob/main/.github/workflows/aws-beta.yml#L46
   It allows a vulnerability to be considered non-compliant only once
   it reaches a certain age, which is dependent on its severity.
   The age is determined with a start-date which is the creation 
   timestamp of the trail.

o) All CATs are made to a Flow called aws-beta-synk-vuln-ages
   See https://app.kosli.com/cyber-dojo/flows/aws-beta-synk-vuln-ages/trails/
   The Trail's name is the repo/service name of the artifact combined 
   with its digest. At present only the top flow (for runner) reports 
   some snyk vulnerabilities.

o) In general, snyk-scanning can happen in two contexts.
   1. In the main build workflow of a repo (eg differ)
   2. In the live-scanning of an Environment (eg aws-beta)
   I think it is highly likely that these different contexts will require
   different workflows using different CATs.
   I think it also likely you would want different CATs for different Envs.
   Eg deploying to aws-prod has stricter rules than deploying to aws-beta.
   
o) This experiment uses workflows in the cyber-dojo/live-snyk-scans repo
   and runs snyk-container-tests on all 10 cyber-dojo images.
   This suggests context 2, but this is only for convenience. 
   The work is intended as a base and, if taken further,
   I envisage two different designs (for 1 and 2) emerging.

o) The snyk test runs WITHOUT using a .snyk policy file 
   so that ALL vulns are reported.
   A simple python program merges any expiry timestamps 
   in the .snyk file into the CAT json data (for matching vulns)

o) If NO vulnerability is found, a CAT is still made to the trail.
   This is because I assume the CAT would be present in an Env-Policy.

o) The snyk-container-test returns a non-zero exit code when it finds
   vulnerabilities. This must NOT cause the step/job to fail, since:
   - we want to do an attestation for ALL vulns
   - we are using strategy:matrix and failures ripples to other jobs


MISC

o) git-checkout is required for kosli-begin-trail
   Is that intentional?

o) Not obvious what the evaluation of the jq rules is in the attestation.

o) Not obvious, from docs, what the exit-code of kosli-attest-custom is.
   If the attestation is false, it does not exit non-zero 
   (which is correct and useful), but this is not stated explicitly
   in the commands page on https://docs.kosli.com
